Hi, I'm Joe Roberts. I'm a product manager here at Posit, and I manage the Posit Package
Manager product appropriately enough. And one of the biggest questions that I get asked
in my role is, particularly from IT administrators or infosecurity, is how can I be sure that
the public packages that my data scientists want to use are actually safe to use? And
it's a very good question, and one that we'll dig into a bit today, but I realize that there's
a lot of, just a lot of you aren't IT administrators, a lot of data scientists in the room who you
already know and love public packages, so you don't need to be convinced of this. So
we're going to change the topic for you. For you, imagine this is how to convince your
infosec team to let you use the public packages that you need. And hopefully I'll give you
some tools here to actually have that conversation when they come and say, hey, you can't use
these anymore because they're a security risk. So what I want to go over today is just, we'll
talk a bit about the public package repositories, because it's important to understand how they
work and how they differ in order to have a good sense of what the security risks are.
We'll then talk about those types of security risks, at least some of the more common ones,
and then, of course, how to mitigate those risks using tools like Package Manager, but
also even if you're not using Package Manager, just some tips and processes you can use with
either your open source tools or whatever you're using for package management, and we'll
see how that all works. So first let's talk about public package repositories. The big
ones that you're most likely to deal with as a data scientist are, of course, CRAN,
the main R package repository. If you're a life scientist, you've got Bioconductor
with more packages for R. And then on the Python side, you, of course, have the Python
Package Index or PyPI. So let's take a look at first, I'll talk about CRAN and Bioconductor
together because at least as how they approach public repositories, they take a very similar
approach. And if any of you have ever tried to submit a package to CRAN or Bioconductor,
you know just how difficult that can be sometimes, and for good reason. So these are all, in
order to submit a package, you must, it has to pass a whole lot of checks, it has to have
good documentation, at least complete documentation for all the functions in your package, all
of these various things. Ultimately, if you think of it, it's kind of like that exclusive
club with the bouncer at the door who's basically saying, no, you cannot get in here unless
you look the part. To be sure, I mean, it is, they're not curating your content, they
don't care if you can dance, but they do want to make sure you look the part to go in the
club. So that's where you're going to go there. Alternatively, the PyPI takes the opposite
approach to that. It is your Wikipedia of packages. Anyone can submit anything to PyPI.
You can go on right now, while we're sitting in this talk, create an account in PyPI and
upload a Python package that will instantly become available to pretty much the entire
world. Which has its advantages, because it does give a lot more community. There's a
far more greater number of packages available on PyPI. But also, that introduces, of course,
some different security risks that are kind of more common there as well. So we'll talk
about the differences there. Let's jump into security risks, because that's the interesting
part. I grew up with some security risks. This is one of the first initial things that
a lot of people care about with packages is, how do I assess package quality? Or really,
does this package that I'm seeing on the public repository do what it's supposed to do and
do it accurately and give me the right results? It's a hard question to ask, because we didn't
write the package. Often we're trying to use packages that we may not be domain experts
in ourselves. That's why we're going to get a package that someone else has written to
do it. But there are some ways that we can actually get a sense of this. Things like,
get the number of downloads. A more widely used package is probably that way for a reason,
because people trust it. The author reputation. Did Hadley write the package? It may be OK
compared to if someone who just has one package in the entirety of CRAN, and you don't really
know who they are or what credentials they have there. Not to say those are bad, but
it's just one factor we factor in. Documentation. Good packages have good documentation. You
know what it does. You can actually read it and see what's going on there. A more interesting
one is revision history. If a package that you see has frequent updates has been updated
recently, it can also give you an indication that someone actually cares about this and
is working to fix the bugs and maintain it as we go. And of course, tests are always
nice if they're in there, too, because that can also give you an indication that, hey,
there are tests that show this is doing what it's supposed to do.
So how do we mitigate these? I mean, ultimately, there is no substitute in package quality
for a human review. Someone actually has to take a look at this and decide, is this package
good enough to use? Often that falls on you as the individual data scientist who's actually
wanting to use this, but there are some more systematic ways of doing it, and there are
assessment tools to help with that. Our friends over at the R Validation Hub have created
this risk metric package, for example, for R, that essentially gathers a lot of these
metrics that you got from those things we just talked about, looking at number of downloads
and various other attributes, and a whole lot more that you can then weight how you
want to to decide if a package is good sense anyway, if the package is worth actually using.
Once you have done that, you can use tools like Posit Package Manager in your organization
to create a curated repository that basically includes just the packages that you or your
organization is deemed safe to use, and then your users can, your data scientists can just
know that if it's in this repository, it's been vetted by our organization or someone
that we trust to actually decide these things there. So that's what we kind of a bottom
up approach to security, where we start with nothing and we just include approved packages
we want to use. Most talks of security risks always usually jump straight to vulnerabilities,
which are, of course, more conventional security risks that you want to worry about. And when
you're worried about, the nice thing about public package repositories is that public
packages that have been published in one of these repositories really is a known quantity.
So you don't have to do typically what you typically would do on, say, a new development
project or something else, where you need to do conventional scanning of it. What really
is the case is that these public packages are known quantities that have been scanned
by other people already. I mean, people are already looking at these. So if there are
issues, often those come up very quickly and are reported in. So these could come up, these
could be in the source code, they could be in compiled code, they could be in external
libraries that they're linking to. And sometimes they're malicious, but often these vulnerabilities
just show up due to poorly written code or just mistakes. So when you have those and
you see the scanning of those, you can actually look at vulnerability databases that actually
have already looked at these packages. And as long as you look and look them up, say,
this package, this version, in these databases, you can get a good sense of, are there any
known vulnerabilities? We here at Positive just started working with our consortium on
a CRAN and Bioconductor Advisory Database. That's, you know, there are relatively, again,
due to that, the bouncer, the door of CRAN and Bioconductor, there aren't that many vulnerabilities
known out there. But there are a few that have come up, usually in external packages
they link to. So we have that. It's patterned very closely after the much larger Python
Packaging Advisory Database that PyPI has, and that's maintained by the Python Packaging
Advisory Group. Both of those feed into the Open Source Vulnerabilities Database, osv.dev,
that Google started, which is a great place to actually go to find, you know, for any
data science package now, at least in R and Python, it's a good place to start to look
there. And once you have that, you can leverage features like in Package Manager called Package
Blocking, where we would actually, you can actually say, I want to take a top-down approach
to security, where instead of just approving the packages we want to use, we can start
with, we'll allow you to use anything in the public repository, but we're going to block
all of these versions of these packages that have known vulnerabilities in the database
and continue to update that as new vulnerabilities come out.
So those are two kind of broad areas of security risks in packages themselves. We're going
to jump now over to some, a couple of areas that are more in the infrastructure used to
deliver packages, which have seen, particularly on the Python side, some real-world exploits
in the last year plus. So I group these under package confusion, because they're really
all about trying to deceive the user into installing the wrong package, or not the one
that they actually are looking for. So two of those that we're going to talk about today
are typosquatting and dependency confusion. Typosquatting, and so we have a little example.
So we're going to walk through the life of a package installation here. I'm going to
talk about these in terms of Python and PyPI and using pip to install them, not to say
that those aren't possible to happen, these aren't possible to happen on the CRAN side
or the bioconductor side, but again, due to the curation, it's much less likely to happen
there. And these are all ripped from the headlines of real-world examples that have happened
in the Python community here. So we're a data scientist. We have an empty, well, starting
with an empty environment. We have PyPI. We're going to do some machine learning, so we want
to get the TensorFlow package. It's over sitting in PyPI. Great. We do pip install TensorFlow,
and pip goes out. Oh, I'm going to look up TensorFlow on PyPI, grab it over my local
machine. Everything's perfect. That's what we want to happen.
Now, let's start again here. We've still got our PyPI, but now we're going to make a typo
Why do you call it typosquatting? Well, we have a typo, and I accidentally typed, like,
we all make mistakes once in a while, two Ns in my TensorFlow when I do pip install
TensorFlow. Normally, what would happen? Pip goes out and goes, PyPI, I want TensorFlow
with two Ns. PyPI goes, well, I don't got one of those, and so pip returns an error.
And actually, this is a good thing, because this is what you want to happen in those situations.
You go back, you see your typo, you move on.
Now let's get a little more nefarious here. So we're back with our PyPI here. I then am
a, wearing my black hat, my malicious Python, malicious hacker trying to get into your system
here. I go and look at PyPI, and I go, hmm, what are these packages that are very popular
out here? Oh, TensorFlow. TensorFlow, to be fair, has 600,000 downloads a day from PyPI.
And so I'm going to go out here, and as a user, I'm coming with pip install TensorFlow
with two Ns. I'm going to go out here as a malicious user, and I'm going to use that
permissibility of PyPI to install a whole bunch of different variants of the name TensorFlow
with a whole bunch of typos that I could totally conceive of. When there's 600,000 downloads
of this a day, I don't need to get too many of these right, because they're going to actually
hit there. Tip goes out and goes, oh, I actually see a TensorFlow by that name, so I'm going
to download that, and you've been exploited. And so how do we protect against this actually
happening in the real world? Well, this is a tough one to mitigate against, but one of
the things to be aware, again, as I said before, this is a higher risk on PyPI than CRAN, so
don't go out being terrified of everything. This is not about being scared. But the big
advantage in this is that many, because of the recent exploits and this happening, many
in the Python community are watching for these malicious packages. So they do not stay on
PyPI very long, and that's actually a good thing. I mean, most of these are found within
a matter of days, if not less. And so one mitigation is just to avoid the latest packages
and updates from public repositories, which sounds counterintuitive, but latest isn't
always the safest from a security standpoint. So one of the ways you can actually leverage
this in Package Manager, as we've talked about before, is repository snapshots. Pin
your installations to a slightly older version and give that time to get through a combination
of things like package blocking that we talked about before. Give yourself time to let that
be found and blocked, and you're only sacrificing a little bit of latest and greatest updates,
and you can always make an exception if there is some really important update to a package
that you trust that you want to go download. But also just get it right and avoid your
typos. And the last one I want to talk about is dependency confusion, which is probably
one of the more sophisticated ways of handling this. You'll notice it's very similar to typo
squatting, but let's start with our same empty environment here. This time we've got our
own internal packages. Say we have, my company does a lot of development of our own packages.
We're here at Posit, so we created this Posit tools package that we don't intend to publish
because it's just got internal code for connecting to our internal databases and things like
that. But we're going to, so we have this internal package. It could be just somehow
installed somewhere. It could be in our internal, we could be sophisticated enough to have our
own internal repository that we install from that's pip-like or PyPI-like. Along with that,
we want to get some packages from PyPI, of course, because we need to use pandas and
requests or something with it. We do a pip install. In this case, more commonly, we probably
have an extra index URL rather than having our own PyPI mirror. So we say, in addition
to the full PyPI, I want to use our internal server for additional packages, and I want
to install Posit tools. Great. We get Posit tools. It didn't, pip doesn't find it on the
public repository. It goes, oh, look at the extra index. Oh, we found it there, so we
install it from there. Perfect. This is a happy way to work, an encouraged way to work
with multiple packages there. And then I want pandas, for example, as well. It goes, pip
does the same thing. I found it on PyPI. I'm not looking one place only, so we're fine.
Let's go back again. This time, I'm, my nefarious hat again here, I'm going to guess that a
company like Posit has a Posit tools package. You could be a GSK, assuming someone has a
GSK tools package. I don't know, it could be anyone. There's lots of, or heaven forbid
you have a package called internal tools or something like that. And so I put a package,
another evil package. I guess the name you might use for an internal package. I give
it a very high version number, so it looks newer than everything else. And then, same
thing, I want to upgrade my Posit tools package, or could be installing from first time. Pip
goes out and goes, oh, you want to upgrade this one? I see a copy of this on PyPI. It's
got a newer version than the one you have. Before I even look for your internal one,
I'm going to take this one that I found, this nefarious one off PyPI, and you've been exploited
again. So there are solutions to this one I love, because this one is a very simple
solution if you have Posit package manager, so that's why. And it's using a unified local
and public repository here. So in package manager, you can actually take your internal
packages, combine them with PyPI packages in a single repository, put the preference
on internal packages first, and then when I call pip install, using my internal PyPI
mirror that I have in package manager, install Posit tools, I will ask package manager, who
will always give them back the internal package, no matter if anyone adds a new package by
the same name in PyPI later on. And so this completely insulates you from any of this
dependency confusion in that way, which is great. And same thing, if I'm doing pandas,
it goes package manager knows it's not in the internal source. I'm going to look in
the public source and find what I need here. All that to be said, I know that some of this
sounds a little scary, especially if you were, imagine if you were on the info security
side and going, this is terrifying that something like this, some simple mistake like this,
and a fairly unsophisticated attack like this could cause problems within our internal network.
The takeaway is, public packages, while they do present risks, you don't need to be scared
of them. Understanding these risks helps give you the knowledge to manage them, and there
are strategies and tools like package manager or others, even just understanding, you know,
how that works, you can think of other ways you can actually solve some of these problems
the same way to help you reduce those risks. And so you can have those conversations with
your security teams and say, hey, don't just say no, let's at least turn that no into a
let's talk about what we can do to make this better. And that's hopefully what I can take
away from it. Thank you so much.
Thank you, Joe. We do have a couple questions. So are there any scanners that you know of
that do exist for R code itself that look for any malicious intent?
Actually scanning R code?
I think so.
Very, very, no. I mean, very, very few. Most of the scanners out there that are either
commercial solutions, besides some common linters for R, they're just checking source
code there. But as far as checking packages, most of those that you see listed out there
as so-called vulnerability scanners for R are doing little more than exactly what we're
talking about here. They're just cataloging what package names and versions you're using,
looking them up in the vulnerability databases. And frankly, for the most part, that's what
Python is doing as well. There's a little bit more out there for Python scanning.
I had one that I was thinking of before. And I was thinking if we at Posit do any active
curation of the Python, any kind of malicious things out there, and pull them out of package
managers.
Not currently. But between you and me, we're working on stuff.
Thanks for the trade secret.
Any other questions? Let's see if there's any more in the Slido. So there's nothing
in the Slido. We do have one more minute if anyone has any questions. You know one over
here? Just try to be loud.
It does not currently use the same CVE type scoring that, yeah. I mean, most of the stuff
that's gone in there has come from, can be linked to CVEs that do have a scoring. But
there's not actually a scoring implemented in that OSV database, right.
Cool. Thank you. Thank you.
Let's give Joe one more round of applause.